README.md, before:

<!--*- mode:markdown;mode:orgtbl;fill-column:99 -*-->
# Local Golang playground [![MELPA Stable](https://stable.melpa.org/packages/go-playground-badge.svg)](https://stable.melpa.org/#/go-playground) [![MELPA](http://melpa.org/packages/go-playground-badge.svg)](http://melpa.org/#/go-playground)

The simple mode for GNU/Emacs for setting up local [Go language](http://golang.org) playground with
features similar (and with help of `go-mode` even outperform!) service at
[play.golang.org](http://play.golang.org). You may treat it like the simple REPL for Go. This is
not a wrapper for working with play.golang.org from Emacs (it already did by original go-mode),
this is complete alternative for setting local playground inside Emacs without using browser for
experiments with code snippets.

Web playground at play.golang.org is nice idea. It has not require setup and it executes your code
in a restricted environment where you can't damage you system. But it brings many restrictions too.
Local playground requres you to setup Go environment but if you developing in Go (or want to do it)
you are anyway need setup `go-mode` and helper modes for working with code in a comfort way.

So with local go-playground you get:

* all features of [go-mode](https://github.com/dominikh/go-mode.el) will work in `go-playground`
* snippets saved in the subdirectory under GOPATH, it helps you keep library of interesting snippets
* you can split the snippet code on any number of files
* no containers and no restrictions on compile time so you can test the complex code
* free for using any external packages from your GOPATH

## Install

Firstly install `go-mode` and `gotest` — these are mandatory. Setup any additional tools you want
for Golang (see Emacs Wiki for guides or google for "emacs+golang"). Personally I recommend use
`goimports` for automatically add import clauses to your snippets. Because usually when you test
some ideas you want get working code as fast as possible. And `goimports` helps with it.

Install `go-playground` from MELPA:

    M-x package-install RET go-playground

If you want share snippets use `go-play-buffer` from `go-mode`.
Install `gist-buffer` from MELPA if you want publish gists on github.com.

The mirror repository of the project: https://notabug.org/grafov/go-playground

## Usage

### Quick start

1. From any mode run `M-x go-playground` for start a new playground buffer filled with basic
   template for `main` package (see the picture below).
1. Add your code then press `Ctl-Return` (it bound to `go-playground-exec` command). It will save,
   compile and exec the snippet code.
1. When you played enough with this snippet just run `M-x go-playground-rm`. It will remove the
   current snippet with its directory and all files.

Mode not offers default bindings except `Ctl-Return`. It just lefts the space for you.

For easy running the template declares `main` package with defined `main()` function. Each snippet
saved to its own directory (named by timestamp by default). Remember `go-playground` runs the
compiler as `go run *.go` so any sources from the snippet directory will be included.

### List of interactive functions

<!---
#+ORGTBL: SEND keys orgtbl-to-gfm
| Function name            | Description                                                                |
|--------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `go-playground`          | Create a new playground buffer with basic template for the `main` package. |
| `go-playground-download` | Download the snippet from the URL at play.golang.org.                      |
| `go-playground-exec`     | Save, compile and run the code of the snippet.                             |
| `go-playground-upload`   | Upload the buffer to play.golang.org and return the short URL.             |
| `go-playground-rm`       | Remove the snippet with its directory with all files.                      |
-->
<!--- BEGIN RECEIVE ORGTBL keys -->
| Function name | Description |
|---|---|
| `go-playground` | Create a new playground buffer with basic template for the `main` package. |
| `go-playground-download` | Download the snippet from the URL at play.golang.org. |
| `go-playground-exec` | Save, compile and run the code of the snippet. |
| `go-playground-upload` | Upload the buffer to play.golang.org and return the short URL. |
| `go-playground-rm` | Remove the snippet with its directory with all files. |
<!--- END RECEIVE ORGTBL keys -->

### List of customizable variables

<!---
#+ORGTBL: SEND vars orgtbl-to-gfm
| Function name                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                             |
|----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `go-playground-ask-filename`     | Ask for the snippet filename on a new playground creation. By default it got name `snippet.go`.                                                                                         |
| `go-playground-basedir`          | Default directory where snippets dirs will placed. Each new snippet got a new dir under this. It has sense place the default directory under GOPATH. Var introduced in the release 1.1. |
| `go-playground-confirm-deletion` | Ask for confirmation before snippet deletion. It may be annoying so you can switch confirmations off. Var introduced in the release 1.2.                                                |
-->
<!--- BEGIN RECEIVE ORGTBL vars -->
| Function name | Description |
|---|---|
| `go-playground-ask-filename` | Ask for the snippet filename on a new playground creation. By default it got name `snippet.go`. |
| `go-playground-basedir` | Default directory where snippets dirs will placed. Each new snippet got a new dir under this. It has sense place the default directory under GOPATH. Var introduced in the release 1.1. |
| `go-playground-confirm-deletion` | Ask for confirmation before snippet deletion. It may be annoying so you can switch confirmations off. Var introduced in the release 1.2. |
<!--- END RECEIVE ORGTBL vars -->


Example screen after creation of a new snippet:

![screenshot](playground-screenshot.png)

## Similar projects

* Try [go-scratch](https://github.com/shosti/go-scratch.el) it even simplier than
  `go-playground`. But it prevents you from using many of tools because it not keeps code in files.
* [gorepl-mode](https://github.com/manute/gorepl-mode) is REPL for Go, helpful for interactive
  research of code.

## Licence

Under terms of GPL v3. See LICENSE file.

## Future plans and accepting contributions

I don't want to make this package much complex. Most of `go-playground` functions depends on other
packages around `go-mode`.  And it is good way.  But one thing I want to add is snippet list buffer
where you can easily find and edit/delete snippets of your library.  Bugfixes and small features
accepted as well.

Commit message:

Add note about notabug.org.

README.md, after:

<!--*- mode:markdown;mode:orgtbl;fill-column:99 -*-->
# Local Golang playground [![MELPA Stable](https://stable.melpa.org/packages/go-playground-badge.svg)](https://stable.melpa.org/#/go-playground) [![MELPA](http://melpa.org/packages/go-playground-badge.svg)](http://melpa.org/#/go-playground)

The simple mode for GNU/Emacs for setting up local [Go language](http://golang.org) playground with
features similar (and with help of `go-mode` even outperform!) service at
[play.golang.org](http://play.golang.org). You may treat it like the simple REPL for Go. This is
not a wrapper for working with play.golang.org from Emacs (it already did by original go-mode),
this is complete alternative for setting local playground inside Emacs without using browser for
experiments with code snippets.

Web playground at play.golang.org is nice idea. It has not require setup and it executes your code
in a restricted environment where you can't damage you system. But it brings many restrictions too.
Local playground requres you to setup Go environment but if you developing in Go (or want to do it)
you are anyway need setup `go-mode` and helper modes for working with code in a comfort way.

So with local go-playground you get:

* all features of [go-mode](https://github.com/dominikh/go-mode.el) will work in `go-playground`
* snippets saved in the subdirectory under GOPATH, it helps you keep library of interesting snippets
* you can split the snippet code on any number of files
* no containers and no restrictions on compile time so you can test the complex code
* free for using any external packages from your GOPATH

## Install

Firstly install `go-mode` and `gotest` — these are mandatory. Setup any additional tools you want
for Golang (see Emacs Wiki for guides or google for "emacs+golang"). Personally I recommend use
`goimports` for automatically add import clauses to your snippets. Because usually when you test
some ideas you want get working code as fast as possible. And `goimports` helps with it.

Install `go-playground` from MELPA:

    M-x package-install RET go-playground

If you want share snippets use `go-play-buffer` from `go-mode`.
Install `gist-buffer` from MELPA if you want publish gists on github.com.

The mirror repository of the project: https://notabug.org/grafov/go-playground.
I really not think that this small project need the mirror but I just would like advertise a nice
git hosting for FOSS. Try [notabug.org](https://notabug.org) for your projects! :)

## Usage

### Quick start

1. From any mode run `M-x go-playground` for start a new playground buffer filled with basic
   template for `main` package (see the picture below).
1. Add your code then press `Ctl-Return` (it bound to `go-playground-exec` command). It will save,
   compile and exec the snippet code.
1. When you played enough with this snippet just run `M-x go-playground-rm`. It will remove the
   current snippet with its directory and all files.

Mode not offers default bindings except `Ctl-Return`. It just lefts the space for you.

For easy running the template declares `main` package with defined `main()` function. Each snippet
saved to its own directory (named by timestamp by default). Remember `go-playground` runs the
compiler as `go run *.go` so any sources from the snippet directory will be included.

### List of interactive functions

<!---
#+ORGTBL: SEND keys orgtbl-to-gfm
| Function name            | Description                                                                |
|--------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `go-playground`          | Create a new playground buffer with basic template for the `main` package. |
| `go-playground-download` | Download the snippet from the URL at play.golang.org.                      |
| `go-playground-exec`     | Save, compile and run the code of the snippet.                             |
| `go-playground-upload`   | Upload the buffer to play.golang.org and return the short URL.             |
| `go-playground-rm`       | Remove the snippet with its directory with all files.                      |
-->
<!--- BEGIN RECEIVE ORGTBL keys -->
| Function name | Description |
|---|---|
| `go-playground` | Create a new playground buffer with basic template for the `main` package. |
| `go-playground-download` | Download the snippet from the URL at play.golang.org. |
| `go-playground-exec` | Save, compile and run the code of the snippet. |
| `go-playground-upload` | Upload the buffer to play.golang.org and return the short URL. |
| `go-playground-rm` | Remove the snippet with its directory with all files. |
<!--- END RECEIVE ORGTBL keys -->

### List of customizable variables

<!---
#+ORGTBL: SEND vars orgtbl-to-gfm
| Function name                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                             |
|----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `go-playground-ask-filename`     | Ask for the snippet filename on a new playground creation. By default it got name `snippet.go`.                                                                                         |
| `go-playground-basedir`          | Default directory where snippets dirs will placed. Each new snippet got a new dir under this. It has sense place the default directory under GOPATH. Var introduced in the release 1.1. |
| `go-playground-confirm-deletion` | Ask for confirmation before snippet deletion. It may be annoying so you can switch confirmations off. Var introduced in the release 1.2.                                                |
-->
<!--- BEGIN RECEIVE ORGTBL vars -->
| Function name | Description |
|---|---|
| `go-playground-ask-filename` | Ask for the snippet filename on a new playground creation. By default it got name `snippet.go`. |
| `go-playground-basedir` | Default directory where snippets dirs will placed. Each new snippet got a new dir under this. It has sense place the default directory under GOPATH. Var introduced in the release 1.1. |
| `go-playground-confirm-deletion` | Ask for confirmation before snippet deletion. It may be annoying so you can switch confirmations off. Var introduced in the release 1.2. |
<!--- END RECEIVE ORGTBL vars -->


Example screen after creation of a new snippet:

![screenshot](playground-screenshot.png)

## Similar projects

* Try [go-scratch](https://github.com/shosti/go-scratch.el) it even simplier than
  `go-playground`. But it prevents you from using many of tools because it not keeps code in files.
* [gorepl-mode](https://github.com/manute/gorepl-mode) is REPL for Go, helpful for interactive
  research of code.

## Licence

Under terms of GPL v3. See LICENSE file.

## Future plans and accepting contributions

I don't want to make this package much complex. Most of `go-playground` functions depends on other
packages around `go-mode`.  And it is good way.  But one thing I want to add is snippet list buffer
where you can easily find and edit/delete snippets of your library.  Bugfixes and small features
accepted as well.
